Welcome back.
I've got another video.
Thankfully it's not the.
Has to be very ready to be done with that topic but it does deal with interacting with files file.
I know it's a topic that is called pickling.
It's kind of fun and the whole idea is that if we have data it's a python specific thing.
We have Python data or a Python object.
So I have a couple of classes here.
And let's say I have a cat instance.
So this cat class.
I don't know blue equals cat and name is is blue and breed is scottish fold like that.
And her toy is a string.
All right so I have this cat and this is a simple example but imagine that I don't know we have a poker
game and I have a deck of cards and I want to be able to actually save the state of the deck of cards
in between when I run this application when it shuts down or something.
I want to save the contents to a file we could use CSP and to do that we would just have to figure out
how to actually get the data you know in a c b format.
How would we represent all of this.
This would be pretty easy I guess.
Name breed and toy.
But imagine a deck of cards.
We have 52 cards.
This data here isn't really tabular.
Also it's just a single cat.
No reason to really make a C S V file where we have an entire you know it's not tabular just a single
thing.
It would be one row.
What we can do instead is use what's called pickling pickling is or pickle is a module.
It's a you know the idea of taking something and pickling it putting it in a jar and whatever what is
that vinegar that you pick up something in and makes it last a lot longer and saves it so you don't
starve for the winter.
Back in the olden times Same idea here we can take something from Python.
We pickle it put it in a special pickle file and.
Python will do the pickle module will serialize the data converting it into something called a byte
stream.
And then we can unpick it whenever we want and pull it back out of that file and it will be turned back
into whatever it was before.
So let's let me just show you I have this blue variable which is an instance of cat.
If I wanted to imagine this is a game state or something a bigger application I want to save it and
then come back later and reload it.
First I need to import pickle.
OK.
And then scroll down.
I need to open the file to whatever the file I want to do with Open and it has to be a pickle file.
So let's just call this I don't know pet dot pickle and we want to write to the file and the other thing
that's important is we're writing binary here so we need to add that we were not manually doing any
of the binary but it's going to be converted into a byte stream when we call pickle as file then and
here we just called pickle dot dum and then pass something in.
So the first thing would be blue.
And the second thing is the file that we're going to dump it to.
So that dump takes in some object.
We can also use a tuple pass in multiple items and then those will be serialized and stored in this
file.
Let's run it now.
If we look at Pead stopped pickle.
Here's what we get.
Very unreadable humans.
That's actually an important note about pickling is that if you need your data when it's saved in a
file somewhere to be readable or you needed to be able to I don't know be opened up in another language
like you want to be able to have your database connect to it or a java file somewhere else.
I don't know.
It depends.
But if that data needs to be usable while it's stored then you probably don't want to pick it.
But if all you're doing is using a python file to open it back up and unpack all the data then this
works fine it's so easy.
I mean you could see that was a single line to dump it.
So I didn't have to figure out how to you know parcel's C CAC figure out what was the row.
I didn't have to write it to a file I just called this in the past in blue.
Now the trick is getting it back out right.
So I'm going to comment all of this out.
I'll leave the import pickle in to get it back out if you want to open the file again.
Head Start pickle.
And we need to do it as RB reading binary as file and then we just do pickle dot load and then the name
of the file.
And it's just called file and whatever comes back from that will just be blue or if we passed in a tuple
with multiple things multiple objects they would all come back in a single tuple.
So let's save it to a variable or call it zombie view.
Very funny.
And then let's print if I just print Zombi blue to redefine.
OK so there is this method that should say self-taught name is a self-taught species and then we could
also do print Zombi blue dot play method.
All right tested out.
But before we can actually do that we were commenting out some code that we do need for example classes.
That's really what it comes down to.
I just meant to comment out this part where we created blue but if we don't have these classes defined
then this data comes back and Python is going to say what do you mean a cat class.
I don't know what a cat class is.
I don't have that recipe.
So we need this class definition in order to make any instance just like we need it in order to run
this line.
Now if I tried running it there we go blue is a cat blue place with string.
We have brought blue back from the dead.
So that's really all there is to pickling.
Like I said if you wanted to do more than one thing at a time you pass the minutes a tuple.
So blue comma resti like this.
And then they come back in that order.
So zombie blue comma Zombi rusty equals whatever pickled download returns which should be a tuple.
And so the first thing that tuples are assigned here and the second is assigned there.
But I'll leave it at one item for now.
OK.
So like I said pickling is really really easy.
It's a great way if you just need to store Python data or Python object or a couple somewhere so that
you can resurrect it when you know your application starts up again.
You can do that but remember it is not readable.
It's not a good way of storing data if you need it while it's being stored in another format another
language.
And on top of all that remember that whatever's stored in there.
When we unpack it it's immediately being called only pickled out load that Python code is running.
So if somehow you allowed a user or something where there was bad Python code inside of the Picco file
when you load it it's just going to execute.
In our case that's not a risk for us but if we were taking user input and allowing users to write code
somehow and then saving that and pickling that could get bad.
So just an obligatory warning there but really it's best for just quickly dumping some Python data.
Python objects we can come back later and get it.
OK.